[SOUND] In this video,
we are exploding out enemies,
creating a cool particle effect
using some spreadsheet animation.
And then,
we're gonna hook it all up in our code so
that we trigger it when the enemy dies.
So let's jump in and create some
cool particles and death explosion.
So if you go into the folder that
you've downloaded previously,
the Kenny's Assets Folder, I've given
you a couple of Easter eggs in there.
I've got an explosion sprite
that shows three images,
three stars on it, so
you can correct that.
If you don't have that or if you didn't
download the Kenney Asset folder that
I provided for you then I've attached
that same image against this lecture.
So whether you find it,
grab it and downloaded it or
if you've already got it in your project,
we're going to create ourselves an asset.
We'll right-click Create a folder
which I will call VFX, visual effects.
Back into my Kenny Assets,
drag the explosions sprite into my
VFX folder that I just created.
So we can't just go applying out image
directly on to our particle effects.
We need to create a material and
then assign this image from the material,
and then assign the material
to the particles.
That's a pretty standard way
of doing things in Unity,
where we make a material that has a whole
bunch of great information on it and
then we apply that material
to various places.
So it's right-click,
up to Create and then Material.
We'll call this, explosion, Stars.
And with our explosion stars,
we will click on explosion stars and
then find the albedo, click on
the selector and search for explosion.
You can see our three stars from our
sprite sheet, click on that, and
now that's been assigned.
At the top of the Inspector, you'll
see Shader, click on the where it says
Standard, and change it from Standard to,
let's see Particles and
then Alpha blended, you can play
around with these if you like.
I'm gonna start with Alpha blended,
that's pretty standard.
Okay, now for
creating our particle effect itself,
right-click on the Hierarchy,
find effects particle system.
I'll rename mine to explosion particles.
Explosion particles, great, now we're
gonna apply the texture that we just
created, and you can see at the moment
we've got this default texture.
If you scroll all the way down the bottom
of the Inspector, you click on renderer,
open that up.
You can see that the material
currently is default material.
What we're gonna be doing is
applying three sprites and
then cycling through them,
using the texture sheet animation.
So first step, next to material,
click on the selector and
we'll find our explosion stars,
double click on that.
Now we have our three
explosion stars coming out.
Doesn't look so good?
That's because we're not telling it to
loop through these as an animation.
So, just up a little bit above
renderer is a texture sheet animation.
Open that up, make sure you
click on the circle next to it,
that's how we turn things on and
off on the selector, so we'll turn it on.
Let's see in here,
mode is cool, the tiles.
Now you can see we've got,
I'm gonna scroll in here so
we can see this nice and close.
We've got three images
side-by-side on a grid.
So our grid is x is 3 and y is 1.
So in effect,
we've got three columns and one row.
Now that we've done that,
you can see that it's starting off
with just one of our images
coming out of our emitter.
But it's the same one
coming out first each time.
So we wanna change our start frame
to random between two constants and
we'll say it's from 1 to 3.
Cuz we've got three frames, so we wanna
say randomly between frame 1 and frame 3.
So what comes out is going
to be a bit different.
Now cycles, if you mouse over any of these
you'll get a description of what it means.
This specifies how many times the
animation will loop during the lifetime of
the particle.
So let's increase this to say 20 and
see how that looks.
Okay, now we've got this kind of
blinking effect, it doesn't look so
good when we've got things coming
out just slowly like this.
But as we do the rest of our tuning of our
particle system, it's gonna look better
than just having the single book
particle being pushed out like that.
Now, up to the top of our particle system,
let's play around with some things here.
Duration is how long one cycle or
one emission of our particle system lasts.
At the moment, it's five seconds, so
it's basically,
I'm gonna stop this for a moment.
If I hit Play, actually,
I'll turn off looping for a second and
I'll change the duration to 1.
Okay, duration to 1,
looping off, when I click Play,
we'll have one second of emission and
then the particle system is done.
Okay, cuz this is an explosion, we want
it to be pretty short and sharp and fast.
So I'm gonna turn this down to 0.2,
and I'll turn looping back on just so
I can see the effect, I'll click on Play.
When we have this in the game,
we'll turn looping off,
cuz we don't want it to loop over and
over, we want it to just burst once.
But now, while we're playing
around with it and tuning it,
we will have looping on so we can see it
over and over and see how our effect.
The next start,
we're gonna look at the star lifetime,
these things are lasting too long, they
are going way off into the distance and
explosion, it is short and
sharp, remember.
So star lifetime,
click on the little selected to
the right random between two constants.
My lifetime between 0.1 and 0.2, so
they're just very quick in terms
of how long they're lasting for.
The speed, we need to change
the speed a little bit as well.
So it's a bit faster, right in between
two constants, other between 5 and 10.
And we're not seeing enough
coming out at the moment, so
I'm gonna go straight down to emission
now and turn emission way up, say 100.
Okay, [SOUND] you can see this
kind of sparkly effect going on.
It's getting a little bit better,
a little bit nicer, and
back up to our speed,
5 to 10, that's good.
Our size, I think a little bit smaller,
so start sizing again, random between two
constants, gives us that good variability,
it's not so uniform.
And for our start size,
we'll say between 0.2 and 1.
Okay, it's good looking in
the ballpark now, starting to like it.
Start color,
that's the next one we'll play around.
We've here, do whatever you like,
do whatever fits your game.
I'm gonna do mine from, actually, click
at that, I don't want it, just one color.
I want it to have randomization of color.
So again, click the little selector,
gradient, and
then click on the white bar now.
And we will give ourselves
just a little space.
You can see I've created
presets in the past.
If you create something in here that you
like, for example, I'm just gonna change,
I'll explain this in a moment, change
my color, then you can click new and
create a preset.
So you might not have all these presets,
that's cuz I've created them
all already previously.
Now how does our selector here
work the top is going to relate to
the transparency, and
the bottom is gonna relate to the color.
So I think we want to have,
in terms of our gradient,
I'll put in maybe, 3 or 4, or 5, so okay,
so we got 6 all up, 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 6, 6 color tabs.
And my transparency at the top,
I'll go and change that now,
the first one I'll do it 144.
And the next one,
I'll do it pretty similar, basically,
I just want this to go,
to stay transparent the whole time.
I don't want it too dominant, I don't
want it to look like it's an enemy,
I want it to look softer than that,
so you can see.
Already the impact is looking a lot nicer,
or
the effects looking a lot
nicer having it softer.
Now in terms of the colors,
well, what shall we do here?
I think I'll do a maybe a yellowy
kind of color at the start,
and then maybe a, what's this,
we'll do a bluish kind of color.
Bit of a blue, that's gonna blend
into the background, that's fine.
And then another color,
we will do as more of a brighter blue,
okay, a little bit of
a punch within there.
You see I'm clicking on the selector,
and then it's highlighted,
click on the color,
change the color to what I want.
We'll do another set of yellowy-green,
orangey-type color.
Okay, that's not too bad, right?
And the reason we're doing a gradient is
the randomization is gonna choose a color
anywhere along our gradient.
So we get a whole bunch of different
colors, it's not gonna look so uniform.
There's a lot of variation in
the colors we get out there.
First, add another point in here and
to change this point to say
more of a purple color,
then a certain percentage of my explosion
particles are gonna be a purple color.
And if I wanna get rid of this, then I
just highlight and then hit delete, and
we get rid of one point in there.
Okay, and then as I said before, click
on new, now we'll save this a preset,
there we go, down at the bottom there,
not as a prefab, as a preset.
[LAUGH] Okay, next thing,
we want to do is to change the shape.
At the moment we've got,
let's click on our shape here.
We've got a cone, and
when we explode something,
it's gonna be exploding it
in an area around that.
I don't think it's gonna be shooting
off in a particular direction.
So I'm gonna change from cone to sphere,
and then that's better,
spurting out in all different directions,
I think that is cool.
The radius, I'm gonna make a little bit
smaller, I think it's a little bit large.
So that means, the particles will be
spinning anywhere within this radius.
But if we use Roger over here
as an example, if we hit him,
then we want the particles to be
starting from a pretty tight standard.
So I'm gonna change my radius down to 0.4,
make it a little bit smaller.
And I'm just gonna see what happens
if I increase my emission to
200 bump and then turn off looping,
hit Play, bam, play.
Okay, not too bad.
I think I do want it a little bit fuller,
so maybe we'll put it all back to 400,
click on Play, boom, okay,
that's a bit more sparkly going on there.
Great, and then next I'm gonna scroll to
find rotation of a lifetime just to get
a little bit of rotation.
Click on the selected,
I'll say yes to that, angular velocity,
I'm going to change that to random between
two constants and go from -180 to 180.
We'll see how that looks now and
I'll click on Play.
Okay, so there's a little bit of
rotational movement on our particles,
I think it mixes it up great.
Okay, it's pretty good for now,
just clicking on my VFX folder,
I'm gonna drag explosion particles
into that, that will create.
This is a prefab delete from my scene cuz
we don't want it randomly sitting
there in the middle of our scene.
Okay, that's pretty good for now.
Next up, we need to explode our enemies
and trigger the particle effect.
So, this is where I have a challenge for
you to instantiate our explosion.
And think of where we should
trigger the explosion.
What's the situation where
the explosion needs to be created?
Have a think about that,
what script would we put it in?
And then to instantiate our
particle effect as a game object so
that we can destroy that game
object after one second.
So, we've done plenty of instantiating,
we've done plenty of destroying, and
in the past, we've done destroying
after a certain amount of time, so
you should have everything
you need in there.
If it's not readily apparent, then dig
through your code, have a look, and
have a think about it.
Do a little bit of research and
give it your best shot.
When you have given it your best shot,
I'll see you back here and
we'll go through it together.
Okay, welcome back, so
I'm going to find my enemy script,
script, enemy open that
up in Visual Studio.
And what am looking for here is
the moment where the enemy dies and
that's where we are gonna
trigger our explosion effect.
Dying and
explosion seem to go hand-in-hand.
So you see down here,
ProcessHit, Destroy(gameObject).
I'm just gonna factor this out and
create a new method in here
which will be called Die.
So right-click, Quick Actions and
Refactors, extract method,
and we'll call it Die, great.
Now within Die, what are we doing?
We're destroying the gameObject.
And because we're destroying the
gameObject, if we instantiate a particle
that belongs to this gameObject,
that particle would be destroyed as well.
So we need to create this as it's own
gameObject that can live for a moment and
then be destroyed when they're ready for
it to be destroyed.
So we'll start with GameObject,
and we'll call this explosion, and
that would be equals Instantiate.
And we need to know the what,
the where, and the rotation.
So the what, we need to create a variable.
For now, I'll call it deathVFX.
Whereabouts while just
the transform.position of
the parent of the enemy itself,
and then, transform
if I can talk correctly,
transform.rotation.
We can write it that way,
we've done quaternion in the past,
we need just do transform.rotation
works just fine, semicolon and
then on the next one,
we're gonna say Destroy.
What are we destroying?
Well, we're destroying explosion,
and, after how long?
We'll say, 1 second.
Okay, and
that should set some alarm bells off.
We've got this amount of time
buried deep within our code here.
So, we'll create a variable for that as
well that we can tune in our inspector.
Let's, first of all, do death effects.
Up at the very top,
we will SerializeField,
and this will be a GameObject that
is called deathVFX, okay, and ;.
We also need to serialized field.
A float that will be,
what do we call it down here?
We didn't call anything yet.
Let's call it, float time, no,
not time but duration of explosion.
Okay, now back down to our 1f
down the bottom here will say,
duration of explosion, right?
Okay, saving that up, back into Unity,
we need to do a couple of things, find out
enemies,so prefabs, I fed everything
to compile, prefabs, down to Roger.
Roger now should have some extra
details on his Enemy Script.
We have a deathFX.
We need to click our selector,
find our Explosion Particles,
that should be assigned Duration of
Explosion, we'll start this off at 1.
My bad, I should have initialized
this at 1 = 1f, okay,
that'd be useful for any other
enemies that we're applying this to.
I'm gonna save, back over into our
script that looks all pretty good.
I click on Play, okay,
shoot, shoot, shoot.
Great, that's pretty explosive, isn't it?
And nice, doesn't look very random?
It looks the same every time might be
a little bit too many particles in there,
but for now, I think it looks
pretty fun and pretty interesting,
I live it as is, so that's cool.
We now have explosions being triggered
in our game when we shoot out enemies.
I look forward to seeing what yours
look like if you've created a particle
explosion, that you
particularly happy with,
then please share in the discussions
I would love to see it.
And I'll see you in the next video.